hard to believe two weeks ago two weeks
ago yesterday was Good Friday yeah and
we spoke to captain Tom Moore who first
appeared on BBC Breakfast because he had
this challenge he wanted to raise a
thousand pounds for the NHS by walking
100 laps of his garden so move on 15
days he's become a household name we're
the fundraising tally of just under
twenty nine million pounds and we'll add
to that as of yesterday he was topping
the UK single charts he has a number one
single under his belt take a quick look
it's a reminder of the passport luck he
story coming up a 99 year old war
veteran has decided to walk 100 lengths
of his back garden why did you decide to
do this I know your deadline is your
100th birthday Tom we've got another
surprise for you we've got a special
guest with us what Michael Ball with us
who I know whose company you enjoy very
much on through the wind walk on through
the rain
ha stand
because they good afternoon to captain
Tom Moore hello hello I'm good I just
need to say congratulations because you
are the UK's official number one what
that really is truly amazing isn't it
[Music]
so delighted to say we're now joined by
captain Tom Moore his daughter Hannah
and of course Michael Ball as well good
morning everyone and captain Tom may I
on behalf of BBC Breakfast to all people
watching us this morning congratulate
you on your number one single thank you
thank you tell you again how first thing
you're looking each morning as you
usually do but now to have such an honor
having Malcolm Michael on the program
that's just absolutely mind-blowing
because he's such a magnificent singer
that record does it produce have such
enormous benefit ok Michael thank you
very very much
Oh captain so Michael can hear you Mike
are you doing I'm overwhelmed now yeah I
really really am um you know we we spoke
last Thursday last Friday yeah had the
idea and here we are we have a number
112 Tom has a number one record it's
it's it's sort of the perfect storm it
the worst of times isn't it it's just
been a beautiful moment in in a really
difficult couple of weeks and I'm so
proud to be just a tiny part of this um
Hannah I've got it I've got to say to
you as well because you you've always
accompanied captain Tom whenever we've
spoken to him and I can't imagine you
thought this would gather the momentum
it has I mean you guys are on television
you've been on all around the world and
you've been sitting there and you know
helping Tom and communicating how's it
been for you and how could we ever have
imagined our family story that we shared
it because we knew we had something that
we thought might bring everyone a bit of
joy but never and never ever could we
have imagined that we were gave it
embark on this journey which has been
extraordinary for all of us and
and I speak on behalf of captain someone
the whole family we remained graciously
humbled by everything that's happened in
the support from around the world is if
we can just add a little bit of joy to
everyone's lives and raise money at the
same time we feel like we've done some
good can I ask Tom what was it like
doing the recording because you had to
record obviously you had to record the
song at home what was that like for you
standing never never has anything like
that happened to me before
I mean Michaels voice is so so far I
mean he could anything be better than
him and to be able to sing along with
him that was really something which you
can't you could never imagine things
like that were covered well Michael I'm
gonna say this cautiously what could be
better than Michael Ball singing well
maybe it would be Sir Tom Jones singing
and we've got a little moment here
because Sir Tom has been talking about
captain Tom because Sir Tom Jones had
the previous record for the oldest
person to have a number one single
that's been blown out of the water so
let's hear what Sir Tom had to say
captain Moore from one term to another
congratulations on beating my chart
record if I was going to lose to anybody
it's an honour to have lost to you for
all you've done raising money for the
NHS congratulations
all the best captain Tom Moore how does
it feel knowing Tom Jones is
congratulating you and bequeathing the
record - well you took it from him
though Tom Jones left you a message to
say that you knocked him off their spot
of being the oldest person to be at
number one but he was happy if it was
going to be knocked off this book that
he was knocked off by you so what would
you like to say he's not live but he
says John Jones has made a a
surfer Welshman you really have you were
taught for so
and no cure I'm ever so sorry
there was no didn't mean any harm at all
Tom your your sis you're silly
and a super singer I watched your listen
to your words right here Oh Tom that's
so lovely of you to say it to him I
don't think he minds too much were you
were Tom Joad oh you were Tom Jones fan
are you and the family a Tom Jones fan
yes oh you have my word
I love Tom John but you know some of
them wishes have been going on for a
long time long number of years but are
still I'm totally enjoyable I listen
enjoy listening to Tom Jones Michael I
saw you I saw you giggling there is such
a delight hearing captain Tom talking
about Sir Tom Jones I mean these are
extraordinary times aren't they they are
and how long will it be until it's Sir
Tom talking about certain that's what
I'd like to know I did Thomas brought
just so much focus and pleasure and joy
and something to feel proud about over
the last couple of weeks and you know
the record is still there you can still
buy it you can still go and help raise
money for the NHS charities it's it's
just a brilliantly beautiful story at
this time I love the bones of that man I
really do
Hannah let's have a little chat about
how this has been for you and the family
because you've allowed us to share your
affection for Tom and you know we're I
think everyone's very grateful for that
you shared what was initially just gonna
be a moment really for you and the
family and everything has changed so
much everything has changed and and as I
said with the risk of repeating myself
we came up with a lovely family familiar
idea and we knew we were sharing
something we set out to share something
but we really did think it would just be
a lovely local story and really once we
saw you on the Friday and and we
on the Sunday everything changed and we
have a family have just tried to make
sure that we are giving as much back to
all of you and the British public and
everyone around the world as much love
as we can back for all the incredible
support and graciousness we have
received I've got to ask Tom how did you
celebrate when you found out you were
number one and and also I think you've
probably had week two weeks of
celebrations really because you've got
your birthday on Thursday coming up but
you've had so many things to celebrate
that's absolutely brilliant and how are
you celebrating your birthday next week
I know there was planning plans for
there were plans for a big party with
lots of family that can't happen now but
I'm hoping we'll see you on your
birthday get to wish you happy birthday
so we can't have the big family waiting
so what are your plans for and your
birthday well I think a plans might be
made for me but I think we'll probably
just have a a very little local family
party because of course people can't
come from any distance and they will
have to keep so far apart but so I will
have a lovely little party and maybe
when everything is clear we can have a
much bigger party I'm sure a lot of
people want that Tom have you had many
cards yeah I think yes it'd be an
understatement
I think 90,000 cards they're still
coming in and just on cards it's
actually over 100 thousand and if I may
if we could extend a huge thank you to
the volunteers who I believe now are
about 60 volunteers at bed for school
opening the cards the cards are coming
thick and fast we thank everyone and if
I could have two settings may I just say
thank you for some cards that we've had
to stop at well we
when crying we picked out a few and it's
just a few of the most amazing ones this
is from a Harvey drawbridge age six who
calls Tom his hero my hero
Tommy Byrne aged eight is making a time
capsule and is putting his letter to Tom
in it Amelia Evans her pocket money in
ten pounds she's aged nine and this one
that made us all suck all day is from
annoyed Evans aged 7 who took all the
money from his and his money box it's 52
P and can you imagine what this is doing
to us we're using lots and lots of
tissues thank you very much everybody
cards and some brunette Hannah thank you
for doing that
that's just so lovely Michael you've
been an emotional wreck through this and
you watch that I mean this is you've
helped to do this well I've been a small
part of it you know a lovely idea that
seems to work I had one goal which was
to make Tom number one on his 100th
birthday and the people of this country
got behind him and made it happen and it
is just a beautiful story it's a
beautiful story there's such a lovely
family Hannah I think is so gracious and
and it's it's all good and stop it I'm
gonna get emotional and crying well you
would be forgiven you'd be forgiven for
it look you know what Michael have a
lovely day this I could see the sun
shining behind you I'm assuming that's
your garden um enjoy that I know you
love Tom and I know you'll stay in touch
women will speak again we will speak
again it look off yourself I'm gonna say
goodbye because I think we've got a
little surprise for captain Tom Moore as
well we've got the Veterans Minister
Johnny Mercer and MP who is joining us
now from Plymouth and captain Tom Moore
I'm gonna hand over to Johnny Mercer to
let him give his message to you morning
Johnny they captured Tom just a huge
thank you for what you've done it really
it really is remarkable and my my
generation of veterans always
look to your generation affections
particularly in recent Wars and so on
but you've shown that that you know
right into where you and I can't believe
you 100 next week if I'm in as good
shape as you are hundred I'll be happy
and look we'll do we'll do something to
celebrate your birthday you've done a
remarkable thing for the nation you you
have continued that that spirit and that
ethos that we all aspire to and just a
huge thank you and I'm in awe of what
you've done and I hope Tom can hear some
of that if not could you just sort of
pass that on for us yes please Veterans
Minister has said how extraordinary you
are and everyone is looking up to you
and if he's in as good a shape as you
are he'll be very happy and commending
you on the extraordinary work that
you've done inspiring people around the
world to do good things that's very kind
of you to say thank you very much indeed
Hannah and Tom we're gonna thank you for
now we will speak again
I'm really hoping we're gonna speak to
you on next Thursday because it's a bit
of a moment thank you very much
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC News live in the app and get
the full story with BBC decoder UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News